process-for-scaling-point-features-in-qgis.txt
2017-01-11 Mark Torrey
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.
First download points of Landfills/incinerators with lat/long
coordinates as a .csv file. You'll want to have all the facilities we
want to map in a single sheet.

2.
Open qgis. Do add layer -> add deliminited text layer and select your
.csv file. It will probably know the geometry definition is point
coordinate and the x field in long and the y field is lat. Hit. ok, and
select WGS 84 as the CRS (since you are only using lat/long data).

For this project, just leave everything unprojected in WGS 84 since the
final output is going to probably be a spreadsheet with lat/long points
that can be used in a gps instead of an actual map.

3.
Add borough boundaries, parks (fresh kills parks layer if you like) and
hydrology for reference. Might need streets or some other reference
points to do the final version of this.

4.
Add the Vector Transformation plugin if you haven't already. Use it by
going Vector -> Vector Transformation -> Transform. Select the points
layer with the garbage sites and Scale as the transformation. Put in an
equal X Scale and Y scale factor - probably something like .01
(This plugin can do rotate too if you need it.)

5.
Zoom to your new scaled-down layer. Then zoom out until you can see
your NYC map layers. Select your scaled-down layer points, and hit the
edit pencil to put you in edit mode. Select all the points in the layer
by doing View -> Select -> Select all features. Hit the Move features
button and drag the selected points over NYC. Zoom in on NYC and place
them over FKP.

6.
You'll probably have to scale that layer down and drag it over again
before you get the right size.

7.
Once you have your points where you want them you need the new
Lat/longs of the points so you can put them in a GPS. Edit the
scaled-down-and-placed points file. First delete the original Latitude
and Longitude columns by opening the attribute table and hitting the
Delete field button. (Those lat/longs applied only to the original
points, not your new scaled-down ones.) Now you need to add new columns
with lat/long. Do that by doing Vector -> Geometry tools -> Export/Add
Geometry columns. (Make sure you don't have any features selected or it
will process only the selected features.) Choose the Input Layer, and
hit the ... button to save it to a file. Add the .shp file result back
to your map (if it doesn't automatically.) If you look at the attribute
table you will have new X and Y coord columns which are lat/long.

8.
Save it as a .csv file by right clicking the layer and selecting save
as. Select csv.







